 

Investment Commission

Investment Law
No. 30 for the Year 2014

WWW.JiC.ZOV.JjO

Tel: 00962 6 5608400
Fax: 00962 6 5608408

Y
Investment Law
No. 30 for the Year 2014

Article (1) This Law shall be called as the “Investment Law of
2014” and shall be in effect as of being published in
the Official Gazette.

Article (2) The following words and expressions, wherever mentioned in this Law, shall have the meanings hereunder
assigned to them, unless the context otherwise indicates:

Council : the Investment Council

 

Commission : the Investment Commission

 

Chairman : the Chairman of the Commission

 

Technical Committee : Technical Committee formed pursuant to the provisions of this Law

 

Investment Window: Investment Window established in
the Commission pursuant to the provisions of this Law

 

Economic Activity : Any industrial, agricultural, touristic,
media, vocational or service activity including Information

Technology.

 

Y
Investor : Natural or juridical person that practices an economic activity in the Kingdom pursuant to the provisions of this Law

 

License : Any authori zation, consent, permit, approval, permission or license issued by the official body to any person allowing him/her to engage in a specific economic activity

 

Official entity: Competent authority for the issuance of the

license

 

Authorized Representative : The officer duly delegated by
the Official Body to work at the Investment Window.

 

Licensing Guide : The Guide prepared by the Commission
pursuant to provisions of this Law which contains provisions,

requirements, procedures and period for granting the License.

 

Development Zone : Any area falling within the customs
territory of the Kingdom to be declared as a Development Zone
pursuant to the provisions of this Law

 

Free Zone : Part of the Kingdom’s territories which are defined and fenced by a separating barrier designated for practice economic and commercial activities including the storage of commodities and shall be considered to be outside the

customs range and the commodities and economic activities

Y
therein shall be treated for the purposes of implementation the
provisions of this Law as outside the Kingdom.

 

Master Developer : The Body that manages and develops

any development area or free zone under provisions of this Law.

 

Registered Enterprise:
The person who is registered with the Commission to exercise
economic activity in the development zones or Free Zones pur
suant to the provisions of this Law

 
Article (3)
The provisions of this Law shall not apply to Aqaba Special

Economic Zone

Chapter One

Incentives and advantages Outside the Development

Zones and Free Zones
Article (4)
a) The provisions of this article shall not apply to the registered
enterprises in the development zones and free zones.
b) By virtue of provisions of this Law, the Cabinet shall issue
a regulation that contains the following tables including their
implementation and amendment conditions and the provisions
related to the Technical Committee stated in Article (6) of this
Law.

1. Table No. (1/A) relating to the production inputs necessary for practicing the economic, industrial or vocational
activities which are exempted from customs duties, and are
subject to the applicable general sales Tax Law in case they
were imported or purchased locally, provided that the Income and Sales Tax Department shall refund this paid tax
within thirty (30) days from the date of submission of a
written refund request thereof. If the Income and Sales Tax
Department fails refund such tax within this period, then
it pay a (9%) interest on any annual basis .

2. Table No. (1/B) relating to production inputs, and tableNo. (1/C) relating to production requirements and fixed

Y
Aye SH

assets, and table No. (1/D) relating to dual use production
requirements and fixed Assets necessary for bracticing
the industrial or vocational economic activities which are
exempted from custom duties, and reduce the general
percentage provided in the general sales tax to (zero percent) when imported or purchased locally, provided that
the beneficiary party is registered with the Income and
Sales Tax Department.

Table No. (2) relating to services which are subject to general
sales tax in accordance with the provisions of the applicable
General Sales Tax Law General Sales in case they were imported or purchased locally, provided that the Income and
Sales Tax Department shall refund this paid tax within thirty
(30) days from the date of submission of a written refund request thereof. If the Income and Sales Tax Department fails
to refund such tax within the said period, then it shall pay
a (9%) interest on an annual basis.

Table No. (3) in relating to the commodities necessary for
the below mentioned economic activities which are exempted from custom duties and are subject to (zero percent) general sales tax when imported or purchased locally, namely:

Agriculture and livestock

Hospitals and specialized medical centers.

Hotels and tourist facilities

Entertainment and tourist recreation facilities.

call centers.

Scientific research centers and scientific laboratories.

Yo
7. Artistic and media production.

8. Conference and exhibition centers.

9. Transport and/or distribution and/or extraction of water,
gas and oil derivatives by using pipelines.

10. Air transport, sea transport and railways.

Article (5)

Notwithstanding what is stated in the applicable income Tax
Law the income tax payable in the less developed regions of
the Kingdom on the industrial, economic and vocational activities as well as the economic activities mentioned in sub-article
(4) of para (b) of Article (4) of this Law shall reduced not less
than (30%) and provisions relating thereto shall be specified
pursuant to a regulation issued for that purpose, specifying the
following:

a- The regions which enjoy income tax reduction and the category of each region in accordance with the level of economic
development thereto.

b- The economic activities that are excluded from benefiting
from income tax reduction.

c- The percentage of reduction enjoyed by the economic activity
according to the region in which the activity is exercised.

d- Basis, criteria and conditions of enjoyment of income tax
reduction.

e- Duration of enjoyment income tax reduction.

f- Basis, criteria and proceedings of extending the duration of

enjoyment of income tax reduction.

eS)
Article (6)

In addition to what is stated in the provisions of para (b) of Article
(4), the regulation shall includes the following:

a- Basis of formation of the Technical Committee and all matters related therewith as well as the standards to be observed.
b- Basis, by which the economic activities will benefit from the
advantages and exemptions provided for under to Article (5),
table (1/D) and table No. (3) set out in Article (4) of this Law,
including the basis of enjoyment of exemptions once again in
case of expanding, developing or modernization of the economic activity as well as the procedures to be followed by the Technical Committee with respect to the applications submitted by

the economic activities.

Article (7)

Should it be discovered that any of the commodities or services
listed within the tables referred to under paragraph (b) of Article (4) of this Law, have been disposed of or used or benefited
from ,for a purpose other than the one for which it was exempted from the fees and taxes or subjected due thereto to the
general sales tax at the rate of (zero percent), or the paid tax was
refunded , then the penalties stated for in the applicable legislations shall be imposed upon the violating economic activity.

Article (8)
a- Upon recommendation of the Council, the Cabinet may,
grant any additional advantages, exemptions or incentives to

any economic activities, including small and medium enter
Y
prises, or any economic activities in a specific geographic area
in the Kingdom, provided that the decision determine the conditions and procedures of their grant and to be published in the
Official Gazette.

b- Upon recommendation of the Council, the Cabinet may,
grant any advantages, exemptions or incentives for companies
resulting from any merger within any economic activity provided that the decision should determine conditions and procedures of their grant and to be published in the official gazette.

Article (9)

a- Subject to the provisions of this Law, economic activities that
enjoy advantages, customs or tax exemptions pursuant to any
legislations preceding investment legislation and any decisions
issued according thereto that are in effect prior to the entry into
force of this Law shall remain benefiting from such exemptions
and advantages until the end of the duration for which such
exemption was granted according to that legislation under the
conditions provided thereof.

The economic activities which have enjoyed incentives connected to the income tax pursuant to previous legislations shall
not benefit from the incentives and advantages provided under
Article (5) of this Law. For this purpose, the Commission shall
exercise the duties of the competent bodies and committees
pursuant to such legislation.

b- 1) If a project has obtained advantages and exemptions from
income tax pursuant to previous legislations, and it has not yet

commenced its actual work or actual production, then, as a

Q
condition for applying the provision of para (a) of this Article,
it shall commence actual work or production within two years
from the date of entry into force of this Law under the penalty
of losing the right in such advantages and incentives.

2) The investor may transfer the ownership of the project which
is subject to the provision of para (a) hereof to any other investor. Therefore, before completion of the necessary procedures
for this purpose should notify the Commission in advance
thereof. In this case, the project shall continue to benefit from
the granted exemptions and advantages granted thereto with
respect to the income tax until the expiry of its period and under the specified conditions pursuant to the previous legislations provided the new investor shall substitute the previous
investor in the rights and obligations under the provisions of
this Law.

Article (10)

subject to the provisions of any other legislation:

a- Any Non-Jordanian person shall have the right to invest
in the Kingdom through possession, partnership or sharing
according to the basis and conditions set out pursuant to a
regulation issued for this purpose provided that the economic
activities and the percentage within which the non-Jordanian
investor may participate or share.

b- subject to the provisions of para (a) hereof the non-Jordanian investor shall be treated as the Jordanian investor.

)
Chapter Two

Incentives and Advantages Within the Development

and Free Zones
Article (11)
a- Notwithstanding the provisions of the Income Tax Law in
force, the income tax shall be at the rate of (5%) of the income
of the registered enterprise taxable income which is generated
from its economic activity within the development zone.
b- Notwithstanding the provisions of the Income Tax Law in
force, the income tax shall be at the rate of (5%) of the income
of the Registered Enterprises taxable income which is generated from its economic activity in the industrial sector.
c- Upon recommendation of the Council, the Cabinet, may exclude from the provisions of this article any of the development
zones that has been originally an industrial city pursuant to the
Jordan Industrial Estates Corporation Law No. (59) of 1985,
and the Special Industrial Estates Establishment Regulation
No. (117) of 2004.
d- The registered enterprise shall benefit from any applicable
tax exemptions in the Kingdom relating to exports of commodities and services outside the Kingdom.
e- The provisions stated under paragraphs (a and b) hereof
shall not apply to income generated from banks and telecommunication companies which hold individual licenses, as well
as the financial brokerage companies and financial companies
including companies carrying on money exchange, financing,
financial leasing business, consultation, financial and tax audit

companies, all forms of transport (such as marine transport,

Ww)
railways, overland freight transport), insurance and reinsurance companies, basic mining and extraction industries, generation and distribution of electricity, transport and/or distribution and/or extraction of water, gas, and oil derivatives through
the use of pipelines.

Article (12)

a- The general sales tax provided for under the General Sales Tax
Law on commodities and services which the registered enterprise
purchases or imports for the purposes of exercising its economic
activity within the development areas shall be reduced to (zero)
percent the registered enterprise shall not be obliged to submit any
guarantee to the Income and Sales Tax Department in this regard.
b- The suppliers of goods registered in accordance with the General Sales Tax Law in the Kingdom shall have the right to ask for
refunding the previously paid general sales tax on the commodities sold to the registered enterprises in the development zone.
c- The commodities and services originated in the development
zone and sold to the rest of the Kingdoms areas shall be subject
to the general sales tax.

d- A 7% sales tax shall be collected from value of sale of services to
be determined in accordance with the regulation issued for this purpose when being sold for consumption within the development zone.
e- The sales of commodities are subject to the special tax including vehicles, tobacco and by-products thereof, alcohol beverages, liquor and beer when being sold for consumption in the
development zone shall be subject to the sales tax and custom
duties that are charged in the Kingdom.

2)
f- The commodities consumed within the development or free
zones shall be subject to the general sales tax unless being consumed for the purpose of the registered enterprises exercise of
its economic activities.

g- Notwithstanding what is stated in para (e) hereof, the forklifts
and vehicles prepared for transport of ten persons and more
including the driver and sold to the registered enterprise for the
purpose of transporting workers from and to the Enterprise’s facilities in the development or free zones shall be exempted from
sales tax, and the basis of such exemption and conditions shall
be organized pursuant to the regulation issued for this purpose.
h- The provisions, proceedings, basis of control and method
of collection of sales tax and refunding it in the development
zones provided for in this article shall be determined pursuant
to the regulation issued for this purpose.

i- If it is found that part or whole of the commodities or services mentioned in this article were sold, assigned or disposed
contrary to the provisions of this article, or used in other than
the economic activity or in purposes other than those for which
the exemption was granted, then the registered enterprise has
to pay the realized taxes and fees in accordance with the provisions of legislations in force in addition to the fines stated for
in such legislations.

j- The services performed by registered enterprises in the free
zones shall be subject to sales tax at the ratio of (zero percent)

upon selling them for consumption in the free zone.

eS)
Article (13)

a- Subject to the provisions of Articles (11) and (12) of this
Law, the registered enterprises which exercise economic activity
in the development zone shall enjoy exemption of materials,
equipment, machines, supplies, and building materials used
in building, constructing, preparing and furnishing all types
of projects established by the enterprises in the development
zone, including spare parts required for continued maintenance thereof , and goods imported into the development zone
for carrying on the economic activity or exported therefrom
outside the Kingdom from customs duties excluding export
fees , service fees and payable wages according to the legislations in force .

b- 1 - Subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) of Article (12)
of this Law, the commodities produced or manufactured in the
development zones which fulfill the Jordanian origin conditions
shall not be subject to customs duties other fees and taxes when
placed for consumption in the local market.

2. Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (1) of this paragraph, the commodities produced or processed in the development zones which do not meet the Jordanian origin requirements, tobacco and its by-products, alcoholic beverages,
liquors, beer and free zones» products upon placing them for
local consumption shall be subject to customs duties, fees and
other taxes within the limits of the foreign costs and expenses
in accordance with the provisions of the legislations in force.
c- The Cabinet shall issue a regulation comprising the conditions and proceedings for applying the provisions of this ar
4)
ticle, including the basis for calculating the foreign value and
percentage of expenses and costs, method of calculating its
fees and settlement thereof upon its clearance for the purpose
of placing it for local consumption.

Article (14)

The registered enterprise which carry on economic activity in
the free zone shall enjoy the following:

a- Exemption from income tax on profits generated from the
following activities:

1- Exporting of goods or services outside the Kingdom.

2- Transit trade.

3- sale and assignment of commodities within the boundaries
of the free zones.

4- Providing and supplying the services within the free zone.
b- exemption from income tax on salaries and allowances of
non-Jordanian employees working in the projects established
in the free zone .

c- exemption from custom duty and all taxes and fees on goods
exported from the free zone for none domestic market and on
the goods imported to it including the materials, equipment,
machines, supplies, building materials used in the building,
constructing, preparing and furnishing all types of projects
established by such enterprise in the free zone including the
spare parts required for its continued maintenance, all taxes
and payable fees.

d- Exemption of buildings and constructions constructed in the
free zone from licensing _ fees , building and land taxes as well

5)
as paving , revenues, organization and improvement.

e- Permition to transfer the foreign currencies and generated
profits from it the free zone in accordance with the provisions
of legislations in force.

f- exporting machines, equipment, materials, commodities
and supplies required to establish any project therein , operate
or expand it as well as_ the profits generated from it outside
the Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of legislations

in force.

6)
Chapter Three
Investment Window and Licensing

Article (15)

a- Notwithstanding the provisions of any other legislation, an
Investment Window shall be established in the Commission,
aiming at providing one stop service for licensing the economic activities in the Kingdom; review the licensing and simplifying the procedures provided that the Commission establishes
a system which enables providing services and responding electronically to investor queries .

b- The Cabinet shall issue the necessary regulations and decisions for regulating the work of the Investment Window including identifying the economic sectors or activities covered by the
services of this Window including the work of its staff.

Article (16)

a- The competent official bodies that are responsible for licensing the economic activities covered by the services of the Investment Window shall nominate its original and alternative representatives delegated to the Investment Window within fifteen
days from the date of receiving a letter from the Commission in
this regard.

b- Notwithstanding what is provided in any other legislation,
the Authorized Representative shall have the power to issue
the license in accordance with the legislations in force which
is applied by the official authority he/she represents, for this
purpose, he/she shall exercise the authorities of the competent

wy)
authority for the issuance of the license stated in such legislations as well as take the actions necessary in this regard.

c- Notwithstanding what is provided in any other legislation,
the investor shall be granted through the Investment Window
a three years profession license in accordance with the requirements stated in the legislations in force if he submits an application thereof provided that the established fees are collected .

Article (17)

a- The Commission shall, within six months of the effective
date of this law , prepare a licensing guide comprising the conditions, proceedings, requirements and legal periods for the issuance of the license in accordance with the legislations in force
which applied by the official authorities in accordance with the
adopted form in the Commission for this purpose, and provided that the guide is published on the Commission’s website.
The official authorities shall provide the Commission with the
required data that is necessary for the preparation of the license
guide within fifteen working days from the date of its receipt of
a request from the Commission thereof.

b- The Commission shall present a draft licensing guide to the
official bodies for review and provide its comments. If no comments are provided within thirty (30) days of receipt of the above
draft guide, this shall be deemed as approval of its contents. The
guide shall be the basic reference for the conditions, procedures, requirements and periods for the issuance of licenses for
economic activities and the official bodies and their authorized
representatives shall adhere to what is provided therein.

8)
c- The Commission shall review the licensing guide annually
and whenever the need arises and update its particulars in light
of the amendments to governing ,legislation, provided that any
amendment or update which occur therein be done by following
the same procedure stated in this article in order to adopt them.

Article (18)

a- The Authorized Representative undertakes to issue his decision regarding the license in accordance with the requirements,
conditions, procedures, legal requirements and periods provided for in the Licensing Guide. In cases where no specific
period is determined for issuance of a decision regarding the
license in the Guide, then the period for the issue of same shall
not exceed (30) working days from the date of completion of
the legal requirements specified stated in the Licensing Guide.

b- In case where the issue of the license calls for referring the
issue to any committee or party to undertake any inspection or
any other action, and where the legislation in question does not
determine the period of time for issuing its decision or recommendation, then such decision or recommendation must be
issued during the period set out under para (a) .of this article.
c- If the authorized representative refuses to grant the license,
then the refusal decision must be in writing and justified and he
shall notify the license applicant of his decision within a period
not exceeding three working days from the date of its issuance.
d- If the authorized representative refuses to grant the license,
or in case the decision of the authorized representative is not
issued within the time periods provided for under para (a) of

9)
this article, the license applicant may submit an objection to
the Chairman within 60 days. Should the efforts to settle the
issue of objection fall within fifteen days, then the Chairman
shall refer the objection to the government committee formed
pursuant to para (f) of this article.

e- 1- The Governmental committee should issue its decision
within (30) days from the date of referring the objection to it
and its decision shall be appealable before the Supreme Court
of Justice.

2- The Authorized Representative should adhere with the decision of the governmental committee and implement the purport thereof .

3- The objection submitted by the license applicant shall cease
forcibility of the legal period due to abetment of his right to
contest the decision of the authorized representative stated in
the legislations in force from the date of submission of the objection and for a period of (30) days.

f- The Cabinet shall form a permanent governmental committee to review the objections on granting licenses in accordance
with the provisions of this Law pursuant to a regulation issued
for this purpose.

(20)
Chapter Four
The Council and the Commission

Article (19)
A. A Council called the (Investment Council) It shall be chaired
by the Prime Minste and include the following members:

ls en eo

Minister of Industry, Trade and Supplies

Minister of Finance

Minister of Labor

Minister of Planning and International Cooperation
Chairman of the Investment Commission

Central Bank Governor.

Chairman of Jordan Chamber of Industry

Chairman of Jordan Chamber of Commerce

Four qualified and experienced representatives of the
private sector to be appointed by a resolution of Cabinet
upon recommendation of the Prime Minister for a two
years term, renewable once and the membership of any one
of them may be terminated by appointing a replacement
for him for the remaining period of his membership in the
same method.

b- The Council shall assume the following functions and au
thorities:

1.

De

Submit recommendations to the Cabinet as to legislation
drafts national strategies and policies related to investment.
Ratify the Commission’s annual plans and make the nec
essary recommendations to it as well as appoint an audit

21)
and determine his fees.

3. Study the obstacles facing the economic activities, outline
the remedial courses thereof and direct the Commission
towards the appropriate mechanisms thereto.

4. Oversee and supervise the Commissioms work and follow up the implementation of the relevant plans and programs related to investment.

5. Ratify the Commission’s closing financial statements and
present them to the Cabinet for ratification.

c- The Council shall convene at least once every three months, by
an invitation from its Chairman or his Deputy in case of his absence. Its meeting shall be legal if attended by the majority of its
members, provided that the Chairman or his Deputy is amongst
them. The Council decisions shall be taken by majority of votes
of its members and in the votes are equal , the side supported by
the meeting Chairperson vote will prevail.

d- The Chairman of the Council shall appoint from the Coun
cil members, a deputy Chairman and the Secretary General of

the Commission shall be the Secretary of the Council.

Article (20)

a- A commission called the (Investment Commission) shall be
formed. This commission will have a juridical personality and
it is financially and administratively independent, and may, in
this capacity, acquire movable and immovable and may carry
out all legal acts necessary to achieve its objectives including
conclusion of contracts, acceptance of aids, grants and donations . The Commission shall have the right to litigate and

22)
may be represented in legal proceedings by the Civil Attorney
General or any Attorney-At-Law it appoints for this purpose
b- The headquarters of the Commission shall be in Amman,
and it may establish branches within the Kingdom or outside.
c- Notwithstanding the provisions provided in any other legislation, the Commission shall report to the Prime Minister.

Article (21)

a- The Commission aims to attract, encourage, promote domes
tic and foreign investment as well as ensuring sustainable attrac
tive investment climate, activate economic movements; enhance
confidence, develop and organize the investment environment as
well as increase exports.

b- To achieve its goals, the Commission assume the following

duties and powers:

1. Regulate and develop special provisions governing the development and free zones in the Kingdom and place them
in the service of the national economy as well as monitor
their application thereof.

2. Formulate plans and programs to stimulate, promote and
implement domestic and foreign investments .

3. Identify investment opportunities in the Kingdom, provide information and data to investors, issue and prepare
guides and special studies pertaining thereto.

4. Establish trade centers, representation offices, hold exhibitions, open markets and organize trade missions for the
object of promoting national products as well as marketing,

development of national exports and promote investment.

23)
5. Take the appropriate decisions with respect to the requests from private and public institutions be they local
or foreign for holding commercial and industrial exhibitions in the Kingdom and supervising them, provided the
Chairman determine -in accordance with instructions issued for this purpose -the special the conditions, controls,

and provisions in this regard.

Article (22)

a- The Commission shall be managed and supervised by a
chairman to be appointed by the Cabinet upon recommendation of the Prime Minister. for a four year term, renewable
once, and the resolution of his appointment shall determine his
rights and all of his privileges as well as the method of termination of his service provided that the appointment decision be
girded by the Royal Decree.

b- A Secretary General of the Commission shall be appointed
by a resolution of the Cabinet upon recommendation of the
Chairman in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Service Bylaw.

c- The Chairman shall represent the Commission before third

parties.

Article (23)

The Chairman shall take the following oath before the Prime
Minister prior to assuming his duties:

«I swear by the Almighty God to be loyal to the King and Country; to respect the laws and regulations in force and perform the

24)
functions and duties entrusted to me with honesty and loyalty».

Article (24)
a- The Chairman shall assume all the authorities vested in the

Commission pursuant to the provisions of this Law, including

the following:

1.

Manage, follow up activities of the Commission and implement the decisions and recommendations of the Council.

Prepare the Commission’s draft annual budget to duly
proceed in the proceedings of its approval.

Prepare the draft legislations necessary for the
Commissions work and present it to the Council.
Prepare the annual report, on the commissions activities
and closing financial statements for the year ended and
submit it to the Council for its approval.

Submit recommendation to the Cabinet for the expropriation of lands and property necessary for the Commission’s
activities in accordance with the provisions of the Expropriation Law.

Conclude contracts, agreements and memorandums of

understanding with third parties.

b- The chairman may delegate any of his powers provided for in

this law and the regulations and instructions issued pursuant

thereto to the Commission’s General Secretary and may also

delegate any of such powers to any of the Commissioms staff.

The delegation must be in writing and specific.

25)
Article (25)

a- The Chairman , Secretary General, Directors and their
spouses as well as their first-degree relatives are prohibited
from having commercial interest with the master developer
or the registered enterprise operating within the development
or free zones during the period of their work in the Commission and for a period of two years after the termination thereof.
Also, they are prohibited from selling and buying lands within
the development or free zones.

b- The Chairman , Secretary General and directors are required to submit a written declaration upon their appointment
and prior to assuming their duties asserting the none existence
of any benefit to them or any business activity of what has been
mentioned under para (a) of this Article under the penalty of
legal accountability and termination of service of any of them

from the Commission.

Article (26)

a- The financial resources of the Commission

consists of the following:

1. Annual amounts allocated to it in the general budget.

2. Fees, taxes, service charges, revenues and fines determined in accordance with the provisions of this Law and
regulations issued pursuant thereto.

3. Aids, donations and grants received by it provided they
are approved by the Cabinat if they are from a non-Jordanian source.

4. Any other revenues approved by the Cabinat.

26)
b- The Commission shall have an independent budget and its
activities shall be subject to the control of the Audit Bureau.

Article (27)

a- The funds and rights of the Commission shall be considered
as a public funds and are collected in accordance with the stateowned-funds collection law. For this purpose, the Chairman
shall exercise the powers of the Administrative Governor or the
State- Owned Collection Committee provided for under that
Law.

b- The Commission shall enjoy all the exemptions and facilities
granted to Governmental Ministries and Departments.

Chapter Five
Regulatory Provisions for the Development Zones
and Free Zones
Article (28)
a- The Development Zone or Free Zone shall be established by a
resolution of the Cabinet upon recommendation of the Council.
The borders thereof shall be determined, adjusted or justifiably
canceled in the same method subject to keeping up the acquired
rights in case of constraint or revocation and these decisions shall
be published in the Official Gazette and the criteria, conditions,
and required proceedings shall be determined by a Regulation
issued for this purpose.
b- free zone established in accordance with the provisions of para
(a) hereof may be within the development zone.
c- Any existing industrial facility within the free zone may ap
27)
ply for excluding it from the provisions of legislations, applied
within the free zone provided it is subject to the provisions of
the legislations applied in the Kingdom.

Article (29)
a- Notwithstanding the provisions of any other legislation, any
registered enterprise in the development zone and free zone
may perform the economic activity for which it was licensed
in accordance with the provisions of this Law and the regulations issued pursuant thereto, as well as the contract concluded
with the main developer, excluding what has been prohibited
or restricted in accordance with a regulation issued for this
purpose.

b- The master developer - and the registered enterprise in the

development zone and free zone shall enjoy all rights neces
sary for carrying on the economic activity, including:

1. Carry out all acts relating to the sale, purchase, lease,
leasing out, managing and transfer of ownership of any
land or facilities within the boundaries of the development zones and free zones in a manner complying with
the provisions of this Law provided it does not contradict with the legislations regulating land ownership in the
Kingdom.

2. All incentives and exemptions decided pursuant to the
provisions of this Law and the regulations and instructions issued pursuant thereto, without the need to take
any other action of any kind whatsoever so as to enjoy

such facilities and exemptions.

28)
3. Conclude contracts with employees and workers in accordance with the provisions of this Law as well as the regu
lations and instructions issued pursuant thereto.

Article (30)

a- The Import and Export Law in force shall be applied in the
Development Zone; and for this purpose, the Chairman shall
exercise the powers of the Minister provided for therein.

b- The license granted pursuant to the provisions of this Law
and the regulations issued pursuant thereto for exercising the
economic activity in the development zone or free zone shall be
considered profession license.

c- Notwithstanding the provisions of this Law or in any other
legislation, no restrictions on the percentage of the foreign
capital shall be applied in the development zone or free zone.

Article (31)

a- The basis for granting residence to investors and members
of their families and workers in the management of projects
established therein shall be determined pursuant to a_regulation issued for this purpose.

b- Special basis , conditions and procedures relating to work
and workers shall apply in the development zone and_ free
zone that are determined pursuant to the regulation referred
to under para (a) of this article, provided that the regulation
should consider the percentage of working Jordanians and
development of governorates.

)
Article (32)

Upon establishment of the development zone or free zone according to the provisions of this Law, the lands owned by the
public Treasury shall be transferred to the Commission.

Article (33)

A- The Commission may lease any lands registered in its name
inside the Development Area or the Free Zone to the Main Developer of that area. However, the Commission may sell such
lands to the Main Developer as per the development agreement
approved by the Cabinet for the compensation determined by it.
b- 1- Subject to provisions of Para (A) of this Article under no
circumstances, the lands allocated for the public interest may
not be sold to the Main Developer, and it shall develop such
lands as specified in the development agreement.

for public benefit to the master developer who shall develop it
as specified in the development agreement

2- If the master developer fails to complete the development
works in the development zone or the free zone, the Commission shall be entitled to ask the Main Developer to pay a fine of
5% of the market value of the lands that have not been developed for each year of delay according to timetable set out in the
development agreement.

c- Subject to provisions of Para (A) of this Article the main
developer may sell or lease the lands in the development zone
or free Zone to the registered enterprise in that zone or to the
official or public institution or parties that run public utilities
or provide infrastructure services to the area provided that

(30)
such a sale be made with the approval of the Cabinet upon
recommendation of the Commission in the lands which was
previously owned by the Commission and transferred to the
main developer provided that it does not contradict with the
legislation governing land ownership in the Kingdom.

d- Notwithstanding what is provided in any other legislation,
the period of lease in the development zones and free zones
with respect to contracts concluded between the Commission
and the master developer and between the master developer
and the registered enterprise up to (30) calendar years renewable automatically for a similar period provided that the two
parties may renew it up to an additional (30) years with the
approval of the Cabinet.

e- Notwithstanding the provisions in any other legislation, the
promise of sale contracts as to the lands all in the development
zones shall be authenticated by the Land and Survey Department provided a charge of one per thousand of the value of
such contracts be paid by the buyer.

Article (34)

a- The master developer undertakes to complete the necessary licensing procedures as a registered enterprise in accordance with the provisions of this Law subsequent to declaring
the development zone or free zone where the master developer
carries out of all works of such area as well as its management,
financing and development including the establishment of the
required facilities and services for this purpose, management,

development and maintenance including the roads, electricity,

1)
water, telecommunications and waste water.

b- Notwithstanding what is provided in any other legislation,
the provisions and procedures for the commissioms recovery
of the public treasury’s land whose ownership was transferred
to the master developer as well as all other issues related to the
master developers recovery of lands whose ownership was
transferred to the registered enterprise shall be regulated pursuant to a regulation issued for this purpose.

Article (35)

a- The development zones and free zones existed prior to the
enforceability of the provisions of this law shall be considered
development or free zones that are established by virtue of its
provisions, provided that their conditions to be rectified according to provisions of this Law.

b- The development companies which have commenced their business prior to the enforceability of the provisions of this law in the
development zones or free zones provided for under para (a) hereof into force shall be considered a master developer for the intents
of this Law provided their situations be rectified according to
the provisions thereof without prejudice to their acquired rights.
c- All parties which have commenced their business prior to
the enforceability of the provisions of this law into force within
the boundaries of the development zones or free zones _provided for under para (a) of this Article shall be considered
registered enterprises pursuant to the provisions of this Law
provided that their situations are rectified according to the
provisions thereof without prejudice to their acquired rights.

32)
d- All existing and licensed buildings and facilities according
to the provisions of the Jordanian Industrial Estates Corporation Law No. (59) for the year 1985 shall be exempted from
building and land taxes, licensing fees, asphalting, planning

and improvement revenues.

Article (36)

Notwithstanding the provisions stated in any other legislation,
the Commission shall exercise, within the boundaries of the
development zone or the free zone, the following functions:

a- The Investment Council will exercise the authorities of the
Higher Regulatory Council and form committees under the
chairmanship of the Chairman of the Commission and the
functions and authorities of the district and local committees.
b- The Commission shall exercise the authorities of the municipal council and other parties provided for in the _ legislations in force and the Chairman of the Commission shall also
exercise the authorities of the head of municipal council.

c- preserve the environment, water resources, natural resources
and biological diversity in line with the Environment Law, and
the regulations and instructions issued pursuant thereto in coordination with the concerned parties.

d- Any other functions which the Cabinet deems to entrust

thereto.

33)
Article (37)

A- The Commission may, with the approval of Cabinet assign
any of its authorities provided for in this Law and the regulations and instructions pursuant thereto and linked to the development zones or free zones to any official party or a government wholly owned company, to perform them pursuant to its
special legislations, provided that such is made according to
the arrangements and proceedings decided by the Commission.
B- The Chairman may, with the Councils approval, entrust any
of the functions provided for under this Law and linked to
the management of the private affairs in a specific development
zone or free zone as well as developing and organizing it to the

master developer for such zone.

Article (38)

The Commission shall assume all affairs and the powers related to the development zones and free zones including the
following:

a- Register the person who wishes to exercise the economic
activity in the development zone in accordance with the provisions of this Law.

b- Establish and register the person in the free zone to exercise the economic activity within the free zone or outside of
Kingdom in accordance with the provisions of this Law and the
regulation issued for this purpose.

c- Issue all types of licenses and certificates related to the exercise of economic activities in the development and free zone in

accordance with the provisions of this Law and the regulations

34)
Article (19)

A Council called the (Investment Council) It shall be
chaired by the Prime Muinste and include the following
members:

. Minister of Industry, Trade and Supplies

. Minister of Finance

. Minister of Labor

. Minister of Planning and International Cooperation

. Chairman of the Investment Commission

. Central Bank Governor.

. Chairman of Jordan Chamber of Industry

. Chairman of Jordan Chamber of Commerce

. Four qualified and experienced representatives of the
private sector to be appointed by a resolution of Cabinet
upon recommendation of the Prime Minister for a two
years term, renewable once and the membership of any one
of them may be terminated by appointing a replacement for
him for the remaining period of his membership in the
same method.

OMOAANINHNA BWN

The Council shall assume the following functions and
authorities:

1. Submit recommendations to the Cabinet as to legislation
drafts national strategies and policies related to investment.
2. Ratify the Commission’s annual plans and make the
necessary recommendations to it as well as appoint an audit
and determine his fees.
3. Study the obstacles facing the economic activities,
outline the remedial courses thereof and direct the
Commission towards the appropriate mechanisms thereto.

4. Oversee and supervise the Commission»s work and
follow up the implementation of the relevant plans and
programs related to investment.

5. Ratify the Commission’s closing financial statements
and present them to the Cabinet for ratification.

The Council shall convene at least once every three
months, by an invitation from its Chairman or his Deputy
in case of his absence.

Its meeting shall be legal if attended by the majority of its
members, provided that the Chairman or his Deputy 1s
amongst them. The Council decisions shall be taken by
majority of votes of its members and 1n the votes are equal
, the side supported by the meeting Chairperson vote will
prevail.

The Chairman of the Council shall appoint from the
Council members, a deputy Chairman and the Secretary
General of the Commission shall be the Secretary of the
Council.
Article (20)

A commission called the (Investment Commission) shall
be formed. This commission will have a juridical
personality and it is financially and administratively
independent, and may, in this capacity, acquire movable
and immovable and may carry out all legal acts necessary
to achieve its objectives including conclusion of contracts,
acceptance of aids, grants and donations.

a- The Commission shall have the right to litigate and
may be represented in legal proceedings by the Civil
Attorney General or any Attorney-At-Law it appoints
for this purpose

b- The headquarters of the Commission shall be in
Amman, and it may establish branches within the
Kingdom or outside.

c- Notwithstanding the provisions provided in any other
legislation, the Commission shall report to the Prime
Minister
